So in this video we're going to
do some writing to text files.
So obviously in the previous video
we covered reading from them.
So I'm still in the same project
that I used for the last video and
we are going to create a new path file.
I'm just going to call this "writing." So
the process of
writing data to a text file is
very similar to reading from it.
The files opened but this time the mode
is w from write instead of r for
read which we saw previously Now
the actual data is written using the print
function exactly as you want to
display it on the screen but
only this time we specify a file object
to send it to and it goes to the file.
And finally it's very important to
close the file when you're finished and
once again we can use which we
looked at in the previous video so
we don't have to remember
to do that ourselves.
So, let's start talking some code.
We're going to start with cities.
So, cities equals LA.
Alice Springs.
Darwin.
Melbourne.
And Sydney.
And we're going to type with open
cities.txt for write,
so using a W this time.
S City and
then we can type four city in cities,
print city, and
here's a different bit now.
File equals City underscore file so
instead of just having it print by itself
we're adding the file part of the line
which indicates that we want
to write this to a text file.
And again because we're using
with here on line three
we don't have to close the file ourself.
So if we go to our folder and
we just open that up.
So we're going to go to our
folder that contains the code.
It's it's this one here you can see the
sample dot txt from the previous video.
So if I did run this and
whoops, I run this by default,
which choose the file I I need to actually
right-click it and run it the first time.
So nothing appeared in the console output
but if we go back to our folder We can see
this now, cities.text has been created and
we'll have a look at that, double click.
You see you've got the five
cities that I typed originally in
the source code on line one.
So you now know what this parameter was.
I know we talked about that very
briefly once in the course.
You can now see how that's used.
Now another thing you
might have noticed here,
because we're using the default folder,
cities.txt appeared here as well, so
intellijack picked up the fact that
there was a file in its folder, and
it enables you to actually view in
that as well, which is pretty handy.
And when you specify right mode the file
will be, will be created as be solvent
doesn't everything exist, but important
if it does exist it will be overwritten.
Now incidentally there's a slight auditiy
about the path and convention for
the spaces around operators here.
Now normally you'd put a space
either side of the equals symbol and
in a silent operation And it tells you
correctly warns you if you forget, but
when using named parameters and function
calls, the spaces are frowned upon,
and you get a warning if you put
them around the equals here.
In fact, equals here is not
actually the assignment operation.
But it's used to provide a named
argument in place of the file parameter.
So in other words if I do something here.
We got a warning here.
Now in line.
That's fine.
Put that there to get rid of that.
But if we put a space here and
here we'll actually get
a realwaring unexpected spaces around
key word slash parameters values.
So On the we need to not
have spaces to avoid that
error which I know is a little bit weird.
So just to confirm the equals here in
this particular case is normally used for
the and we put eye equals five but there.
But here its not actually
in the operation but
it's used to provide a name document
In place of the file parameter.
So in other words, city_file is
the parameter, it's a named argument.
Now we saw another named argument earlier
in the print statement when we passed and
equals in two single quotes, and
we'll be looking at functions and
parameters in more detail
later in the course.
So just for now, humor IntelliJ,
remove the spaces around the equal
When specifying named arguments
like we've done in line five.
Now before we leave named arguments print
argument that can be set to true or false.
And the false is false so
data isn't flushed.
Now to understand what this is for
we have to look a little bit in more
detail about what is happening.
When Python writes data to a file.
Now, external devices on your
computer including the screen
are much slower than computer memory.
So, running with things like disc
drives in the screen is buffered.
So what that means is that the data
is actually written to a buffer, and
the contents of that buffer is transferred
to the external device in the background.
So it's something that happens,
While you're sort of doing something else.
This allows the program to continue
processing without waiting for
the write to complete.
And so, everything seems much faster.
So in other words, as soon as we run
this program, Once the process finished,
at that point it may still be writing
something in the background to that file.
Now this, obviously an example,
you have five words that
would have been pretty quick.
But you can imagine like a huge
file writing that was perhaps many
megabytes long.
It does take the computer
some time to process.
And that's because it is putting
in that buffer It all then
comes down to the speed of the device
that you're writing the information to.So
essentially it means that the data is
actually written to the buffer and then
the contents of the buffer is transferred
to the external device in the background.
And again, we're doing that or
it happens automatically to
allow the program to continue.
Without waiting for
that write process to complete.
Sometimes though with that said, you want
the data to be written out immediately.
So especially if the external
device is a screen, and
you want the user to be able to
see the output straight away.
So with buffering, data could be sent
to the screen from the buffer for
example, and then immediately overwritten
by subsequent data from the buffer.
So this wouldn't be apparent
in our example so far.
Because it already using relatively
small amounts of data but
displaying the last on the screen
could suffer from that effect.
As the scrolls up the screen
lines of text appear to flicker.
Now, closing a file causes the buffer
to be flushed automatically.
But if you wanna ensure
your data's written sooner,
you can pass flush equals true to cause
the data to be written immediately.
Generally though with that said, it's not
something you'd, you really should worry
about, but the ability to control
it through a window is important
enough that the benefits Python introduced
the flash parameter in Python three.
Remembering that with that said that
Python was but Python three was released
in 2008, and although they may not seem
very a longer time ago A modern computer
is three times as fast as they were
then and interestingly enough a modern
mobile phone more than likely has a faster
processor than a 2008 desktop computer.
So things have come a long way and
the point we're making here is
you probably generally speaking don't
need to use the first parameter.
But it's there if you decide to use it.
So you go about doing something
like flash equals true.
That's actually how you do it if you
wanted to actually use that flush command.
And generally we don't recommend
that you need to do that for
most of the situations.
So okay data from the last video.
And we've now seen how to write our
little file worked earlier in this video.
But before we move on it's probably
useful to see if we can read back
the data we've just written.
So let's that bit out, because
we've already now written the data.
We don't need to call them again
because the file already exists so
we're going to start with an empty list.
And with open, with open cities.txt for
read as city_file.
This is our first study,
for city in city_file.
You can try something
like cities.append(city).
Then we can do a print(cities).
Then maybe, for
city in cities and print(city).
So now we're going through
opening the file using with.
We're going through each city,
we're appending it to our list.
Then we're printing up the list and you're
just going through each entry in the list
and printing it again just to confirm
that we can save the individual cities.
So if we run this
you can see we've got notice that slash
n exists on all of those as well.
And then we can see
that the five examples.
So in other words this
works after a fashion.
But we have those,
these additional new line characters up
here in the list but also after each line.
And one good way that we can remove
that is we can use the strip function,
from a string to remove those
characters from a string.
Instead of waiting until you print it out,
I'm doing something in the print here,
like putting end equals single quote
single quote there to remove it.
It can be a good idea to remove it
at the time we're importing it.
So we can do something like,
append, and we can put .strip
.strip/n.
So if you then run that We see
we get a much better result.
You notice the /n doesn't
appear in our list anymore.
And obviously,
each entry is outputted without the any
line character which is pretty cool.
So, to see how strip's used let's
temporarily create a new file.
We're just going to call it scratch pad.
So, if you happen to be using
idol you can just type these
commands directly into idol.
Assuming you.
You need to do just what I have done and
create a new file.
We do something like
print Adelaide.strip A.
Then we run that and
it will say problem with running it again
so I'm going to just right click that.
And run scratchpad.
And notice how it's taking the a off,
so it's stripped off the a.
So what strip does, it removes characters
from the beginning or end of a string and
only from the beginning or end.
That's an important thing.
So for example, if I went back now and
changed this To del,
which you can see.
I ran that.
So you can see what's happened there.
The intention here when we ran it was to
remove the del, the second, third, and
fourth characters from.
But what actually happened
was it ignored those.
But, it did remove the DE on the end,
and it ignored the L.
So, very important that's a partial
match and its only returning, stripping
anything that's in there even its only
a partial match as you can see there.
So, back to our program again.
Back to writing, and I'll just
select that before I forget again.
So on line 11,
our program now strips slash n,
which is the new line character,
before they're appended to the list.
So one thing to note is that Python
is aware of which operating system
it's running on, and it handles what
is referred to as universal newlines.
Now on UNIX systems, such as Linux and a
Mac, New lines are written using a single
character, where as Windows uses two
characters which is a /r or a /m.
Sometimes now it's written as CR-LF for
carriage return and line feed, back
from the the days when printers needed
codes to correctly position the paper.
For the next line of text.
But the good thing is the point we're
making here is that Python's aware of this
and automatically takes care of
the different conventions for
handling line breaks for you for
different operating systems.
But, this is the important thing,
as long as the files open in text mode.
Does need to be opened in text mode for
that to happen.
So we're going to finish the discussion
on text files by observing that
anything that you can print out on
screen can be written to a text file.
However, it's not always possible to
read it back in the original form.
And to show you that,
you're going to run the following program.
And we'll see exactly what we mean.
So down here,
I'm gonna type Imelda equals Mayhem.
[NOISE]
My 2011.
And it's one, you saw this
obviously in the earlier lectures.
[NOISE]
Do a couple more.
Okay so
there's the data we want to [INAUDIBLE] so
if we do something like with open.
Three, double and the order as before.
And we do something like print,
file equals file.
So that's obviously gonna run and
print out our top.
So if we run that, just for simplicity
I'll change that to a text file, .txt.
And if we run that, and there's our .txt.
We'll have a look at that.
And you can see that,
just make a bit space here.
So the contents of the file probably look
like a good representation of our tuple,
but there's no easy way to read
it back into a tuple variable,
because it's now stored as a string.
So Python does have an eval function
that will evaluate any expression
to a string passed to it, so
we could get the contents back from the
file into a tuple variable by using eval.
So we'll just close it down.
And we'll just comment this
out now because we know what
file we're going to read the file again.
So I'm going to put with open, and in
order three dot TXT, we'll read this time.
As imelda_file contents
equals imelda_file.readline.
And we can do something like
imelda equals eval contents.
We can do print imelda Title,
artist, year, tracks equals imelda.
print title, print artist, print year.
Okay so if you run
that So it does allow us,
in this case, to retrieve
the contents of the type of the file.
But there are much better
ways to do it as we'll see.
So the use of evals is not a good idea
when dealing with data external to your
program, and that's because the contents
of the file could be changed, and frankly
could contain damaging instructions and
your program would happily execute them.
It's really important to design
programs with security in mind and
not to leave vulnerabilities in your code.
So I'm gonna finish the video here, now.
In the next video we're gonna talk
about appending to a text file.
And then we're going to come
up with a challenge, for
what we've learned to do with reading,
writing, and appending text files.
So we'll do that in the next video